---
id: 1.0.0
title: 1.0.0
---



#### 11/20/2024

import ComingSoon from '@site/src/components/ComingSoon'


## Qodly Studio

<h3>What's new</h3>


- New [`onPrivilegeChange`](../studio/pageLoaders/pageLoaderOverview#triggers-and-events) Event: Ensures elements display based on user privileges.

- [Sanity check](../studio/pageLoaders/pageLoaderOverview.md#sanity-check) Update: Raises an error if a shared selection attribute is dropped over a matrix bound to a local selection.

- [Binding onHttpGet Functions](../studio/pageLoaders/events/bindingActionToEvents#binding-onhttpget-functions): Enables binding functions for HTTP GET requests with [4D.OutgoingMessage](../language/OutGoingMessageClass.md), supporting flexible operations like file viewing or downloads.

- [Toggle Inherited Permissions](../studio/roles/permissionsOverview#showhide-inherited-permissions): Allows visibility toggling to show only explicitly defined permissions or include inherited ones by default in the privileges interface.

- [Default State Override Warning](../studio/pageLoaders/states/stateOverview#setting-a-default-state): Displays a warning icon when the Default State will be overridden by an unmet Conditional State condition, with a tooltip explaining the override.


<h3>Bug Fixes </h3>

<details><summary>Click to viewview the bug fix list</summary>

- Explorer - can't delete or duplicate a page. 
- Navigation - Can't use the property of an object as a value for a navigation event. 
- When we zoom the debugger the breakpoint and the arrow are not properly displayed. 
- the dialog border doesn't appear properly in edition mode.
- Matrix - The matrix starts flickering in editing mode when I use a percentage width. 
- Disable component - i can't reset value of the disable property. 
- Roles and privileges - delete icon doesn't appear in the popup. 
- Explorer (Classes) - Rename a class in the Model always causes a message about the selection class. 
- Debugger - the debugger throws an error code 1006 when trying to attach it.
- the message of incorrect state name doesn't appear properly. 
- Bug with the page loader component in a dialog.
- Explorer - Classes are not grouped correctly. 
- State condition operators are wrong with entitysel.length. 
- Preview app - Change the preview page wording.
- Entity info disappear from matrix after entity update. 
- OutgoingMessage class support - Passing an entity selection as parameter fails. 
- Model Editor - the icon of byte type is incorrect. 
- Matrix layout broken once again.
- States - The icon is not correct for the 'Current state' type. 
- 2 cases where navigation does not work properly with states. 
- No sanity check error appears if we use an incorrect Datasource name in the function event.
- Web form setError() - No snack bar is displayed (function called on an entity datasource).
- States - Conditional state involving a boolean datasource. 
- States - Conditions type "current state" doesn't work properly. 
- Debugger - the commented code can be executed from the debugger if its selected. 
- States - The state isn't refreshed after using the standard logout action. 
- States - The width of the condition menu changes when the condition type is modified. 
- States - An error appears when we use the 'boolean' value type in the conditions. 
- States - Apply a state in the tabs component, forcing the first tab to be redisplayed. 
- Shared folder - some images can't be viewed in Qodly. 
- Debugger - the edit and delete icons of the expressions in the expression watcher are not same color and way too close to one another. 
- Default state with no condition gets disabled.
- Debugger - Incorrect debugger error message after detaching the debugger. 
- Components - The 'disabled' property is always touched by default.
- Events - The Qodly source name is not displayed in the navigation event.
- Datasources - The namespace name is set as the result of the function.
- Datasources - create action doesn't work for an entity created from a selection. 
- States - The condition "starts with" doesn't work. 
- I can Drag and Drop components in Canvas even if we have the dialog open (edition mode).
- CRUD Operations - No sanity check error appears if we use an incorrect Datasource name in the copy event of a qodly source or a selected element.
- CRUD Operations - Images of the next entity are not displayed after dropping the selected element. 
- Custom Component : Fetching only declared attributes (Inside Matrix).
- When we delete a shared Qodlysource from a condition, the namespace's name replaces it in the input.
- Drag and Drop a Qodlysource of type array and object inside a nested stylebox doesn't work properly. 
- Debugger - After detaching the debugger in qodly studio , an error message is displayed. 
- the backgound of the dialog applied in the canvas (edition mode). 
- Dialog: border raduis working in Render Mode but not build mode. 
- Matrix - after deleting an item the scroll is not positioned in the right element. 
- When dropping an attribute of a shared selection over a matrix bound with a local selection the dropped attribute should have the correct/local datasource namespace. 
- SelectBox - the search doesn't work properly in preview Mode. 
- Events - The events of the hidden component are not displayed in the contextual panel. 
- Events- New On Loaded event badly displayed on old apps. 
- Dialog: not responsive if we use percentage values to the dimensions. 
- Dialogs - Data is not displayed for the selected element. 
- QodlySource refactoring - the Qodlysource isn't updated in the custom component. 
- Button - the background color value is lost with the porpertie disable. 
- the white color of datastore class and pages should be corrected.
- Datatable - the selected element is lost when we sort the column. 
- Image not displayed in a matrix item if we use the property "image source" or the property "default image source". 
- states - the list of operators doesn't appear. 
- the user class name disappear (in tab).
- ctrl/cmd + s (save) doesn't work for code editor. 
- States - Condition involving the parent state does not work anymore. 
- Bound texts show nothing. 
- Dialogs - The property disable is useless for dialogs.
- States/conditions : Comparators are not depending on datasource type.
- Selectbox layout discrepancy between webform editor and preview/render. 
- Welcome tour : Creating DataClass attributes step is not accessible with button previous. 
- The wrong image appears in Item lists when we add an Item Shopping cart template (image inside matrix).
- When using the CSS Flex in the canvas, the appearance of the range input element may not be displayed correctly.
- Events / copy datassource - Copy $This in a shared datasource on mouse enter fails. 
- helper tips - the links in (Catalog - A Window to Your Datastore) dialog don't work. 
- Craft components - the names of the craft components are not aligned.


</details>


## Qodly Server

<h3> What's New </h3>

- [Session Singletons](../language/basics/lang-classes.md#session-singleton): Added support for Session singletons, including the new [`.isSessionSingleton`](../language/ClassClass.md#issingleton) class property.
 
- [`onHttpGet`](../orda/data-model.md#onhttpget-keyword) Function Keyword: Allows defining singleton or ORDA functions accessible through REST requests using the [HTTP GET verb](../api/classFunctionsOverview.md#function-call-syntax).

- New [`4D.OutGoingMessage`](../language/OutGoingMessageClass.md) Class: Enables the REST server to return any web content, enhancing response flexibility.


<h3>Bug Fixes </h3>

<details><summary>Click to display the bug fix list</summary>

- Fixed issue where the LSP disconnected when using "go to definition" or modifying user component code.

</details>

Thank you for your continued support and understanding as we implement these enhancements!
