---
id: 1.1.0
title: 1.1.0
---


#### 03/24/2025

import ComingSoon from '@site/src/components/ComingSoon'


## Highlights

- **New AST interpreter**: Modified [**operator precedence rules**](../language/basics/lang-operators.md#operator-precedence) to align more closely with programming standards, and better code execution performance. Now in QodlyScript, 1+2x5 equals 11 and not 15!

- [**Support for HTTP Handlers**](../studio/httpHandlers): Added support for defining and managing HTTP Handlers to process requests based on URL patterns and HTTP methods, with a new UI and code editor integration. 

- [**onInit Event for Qodly Sources**](../studio/pageLoaders/events/overview.md#on-init): Added a distinct `On Init` event for Qodly Sources, which triggers when a Qodly Source is instantiated by the renderer. This allows developers to set up an initial value for a Qodly Source without interference from subsequent `On Change` events.

- [**Privileges Detailed Permission Review**](../studio/roles/rolesPrivilegesOverview.md#detailed-permission-review-for-roles): When a role is selected in the Roles & Privileges editor, a detailed permission review is displayed to provide insight into the final permissions resolution for that specific role. This feature helps developers fine-tune privileges more effectively by showing the impact of privilege configurations.

- [**QodlyEvents: onStartup and onStop**](../studio/qodlyEventsClass): Added structured support for defining automatic startup and shutdown logic within the QodlyEvents class.


## Qodly Studio

<h3>What's new</h3>

- [Intervals for Date Input](../studio/pageLoaders/components/textinput.md#embedded-input): Added support for defining date selection intervals, enabling restrictions such as start/end dates, specific date ranges, or day-based selection. Users can manually set intervals or bind a datasource for dynamic control.

- [Week Start Customization in Date Picker](../studio/pageLoaders/components/textinput.md#embedded-input): Added support for selecting the starting day of the week in the date picker.

- [Iterator Qodly Source ($This) Action Support](../studio/pageLoaders/events/bindingActionToEvents.md#qodly-sources): Added support for Drop and Copy as the only available actions when using an iterator Qodly Source ($This) in the events panel of a standard action.

- [Validation Rule for Qodly Source Selection](../studio/pageLoaders/states/conditionalState.md#saved-condition): Enforced a validation rule that allows only shared Qodly sources in Saved Conditions. Selecting a local Qodly source triggers a sanity check error with a clear message and visual indicators to prevent misconfiguration.

- [Clear Non-Existing Resources in Privileges](../studio/roles/permissionsOverview.md#clear-non-existing-resources): Added a visual indicator for unavailable resources in the permissions table. Non-existing resources now appear in red with a shadow effect, and a Clear button is enabled to remove all associated permissions.

- New [privilege operators for states](../studio/pageLoaders/states/conditionalState.md#privilege-condition): `has at least one privilege` and `has no privilege`. 

- [Flexbox Direction Options](../studio/pageLoaders/styling.md#properties-panel-styling-options): Added "Row Reverse" & "Column Reverse" options to the Direction property If the Display is Flex, allowing items to be arranged in reverse order.


- [New Event in Selectbox Component](../studio/pageLoaders/components/selectbox.md#triggers-and-events): Added the On Clear event, which triggers an action when the selected item is cleared.

- Data table: New [sorting behaviors](../studio/pageLoaders/components/datatable.md#properties-customization) for columns.

- [Checkbox type selection options](../studio/pageLoaders/components/checkbox.md#checkbox-component), allowing to select the available states and default values for a checkbox.

- [Reveal Password Icon Placement](../studio/pageLoaders/components/textinput.md#embedded-input): Added an option to position the reveal password icon on either the left or right side of the text input field.


## Qodly Server

<h3> What's New </h3>

- New [4D.IncomingMessage](../language/IncomingMessageClass.md) class, allowing to process contents retrieved from custom HTTP Request handlers.

- Added the [`logEvent`](../language/commands/logEvent.md) command, allowing you to write custom events in the [diagnostic log file](../cloud/resourceMonitoring.md#logs-tab).


- Added the [Endpoints](../language/EndpointsClass) class, allowing your code to know on which endpoint it is executed (for example public or authenticated endpoint).





- New [4D.TCPConnection](../language/TCPConnectionClass.md) and [4D.TCPEvent](../language/TCPEventClass.md) classes to handle low-level TCP connections. 


- Enhanced the [`.sign()`](../language/CryptoKeyClass.md#sign) and [`.verify()`](../language/CryptoKeyClass.md#verify) functions in the [4D.CryptoKey class](../language/CryptoKeyClass.md) to support Blob data in the *message* parameter. 

- [Users class](../language/UsersClass):
    - The class is now available as a singleton.
      :::warning
         While existing instantiation using cs.Qodly.Users.new() remains functional for backward    compatibility, we no longer recommend using it.
        :::
    - The following functions have been renamed for improved clarity:
        - .getAllUsers() → [.allUsers()](../language/UsersClass.md#allusers)
        - .getCurrentUser() → [.currentUser()](../language/UsersClass.md#currentuser)
        :::warning
        The old syntax is still supported for compatibility but will be deprecated over time. We recommend transitioning to the new syntax.
        :::


## Upgrade Tips


Before upgrading your main environment, you are advised to test your app in a **distinct environment**: 

- make sure you have an [available environment](../cloud/billingSubscriptionManagement.md#add-environment) in Qodly 1.1.0 
- and [deploy a release](../cloud/releaseManagementDeployment.md#deploying-a-release) of your app on this environment to test it.

Or, you can just [clone](../cloud/consoleOverview.md#managing-applications) your app into a new app. The clone will automatically be upgraded in the latest Qodly version. 

You're advised to [backup your application](../cloud/dataManagement.md#configuring-backup-frequency) before upgrading. 

:::warning Points to check

Some new behaviors may affect your apps and require some adjustments in your code or page design:

- Modified [**operator precedence rules**](../language/basics/lang-operators.md#operator-precedence) 
- **guest** no longer supported as privilege value in the [State conditions editor](../studio/pageLoaders/states/conditionalState.md#privilege-condition) (replaced by `has no privilege`).


:::
