---
id: v1.0.0-beta.5
title: 1.0.0 - beta.5
---



#### 07/31/2024

## Qodly Studio

<h3> What's New </h3>

- New [Page states](../studio.pageLoaders/states.md).
- Image component - the ability to DnD an image from the shared folder into image source and the default image source. 
- New terminology - for more accuracy, some Qodly concepts have been renamed: *webforms* have been renamed **Pages** and *datasources* are renamed **Qodly sources**.

<h3>Improvements </h3>

- Sanity check - Image component - Warning for datasource / source. 
- Dialogs: Dialogs are now grouped in the outline and can be opened from it.
- Explorer (classes): Enhanced ergonomy for classes.
- Pages Editor: Enhanced cancel component creation.
- Dates - Display an empty content instead of Invalid date if the date is !00.00.00!. 


<h3>Bug Fixes </h3>

<details><summary>Click to display the bug fix list</summary>

- when we click on state's condition the browser tab is closed.
- Time - Time attribute of a saved entity received from the server is not displayed.
- Dialogs - D&D a component after a component followed by a dialog does not show the green line. 
- Parentheses in a comment are rendered with colors.
- Expanding outline of a page not working. 
- Dialog button shows nothing whereas Dialogs exist for the webform.
- Explorer (Classes) - If the DataStore class is empty, add a function in it from the Model has no effect. 
- Reset value dialog disappears for the properties of type select. 
- Flickering when we hover on Image. 
- The width property should be before the height property in (basic) properties list. 
- The button "create webForm" should be disabled until we receive a response from the server. 
- Select Box - Enable search is not properly aligned.
- Dialog's close icon disappears when we reduce the size of the webform. 
- The styleBox gets disabled if it contains a disabled button. 
- Webform loader's issue: matrix not displaying its content when onloading the page and executing a function. 
- Standard action - Copy does not work for a related entities attribute. 
- Time - Input text with type time - + 1 hour is made when we enter the input. 
- The scroll appears behind the webForms Tab. 
- LSP does not recognize `.new()`, `.get()`, `.first()`, `.extract()`, `distinct()`, etc. when .4qs file is missing.
- Custom Component 'Text Editor' causing issues in a matrix. 
- The tip (Bulb) is not properly aligned in Components list and is cut in the server side ref basic mode. 
- Server crashes when calling a function on a shared datasource (entity).
- Date format festival (when in an object).
- Events - The datatable flickers when the event last is executed. 
- Checkbox resulting from a direct drop of boolean on canvas cannot be updated regarding its datasource. 
- Model editor - The inputs in the model editor do not lose focus when clicking on other inputs. 
- Code editor - the error message is displayed behind the tabs. 
- Datatable - The image must fit with the column width and height. 
- Renderer - an error is displayed when we try and get all entities in the renderer. 
- Model editor - "Undefined" appears when I try to cancel the creation or edition. 
- Qodly Demo Users : picture not found.
- Data model - The attribute type for computed attribute of type EntitySelection is not returned by the REST API $catalog/$all. 
- Dialog height issue when the webform position is relative & the canvas is scrollable.
- Sanity check : set value/Clear/reset do not trigger missing datasource error. 
- flex start in justify and start in align should be selected by default when we choose flex. 
- Outline: name too long. 
- Outline hide action should only hide in the editor, not the preview. 
- Datatable is not displayed when we use a webForm with properties display is flex direction column and content is too large in height. 
- Datasources - boolean datasource is not displayed with the right variant. 
- Methods - the confirmation pop up for saving always appears when saving a new method. 
- Tabs Component - resetting the variant property doesn't back to the default value. 
- File upload component makes the Save standard action not to be called. 
- The server side reference should not be editable in a state. 
- Upload Picture not working correctly. 
- Datatable - the datatable doesn't display the correct data. 
- Tabs - The rename input border is not updated with the new Qodly aesthetics.
- Tabs - the tab stays blocked in a reloading state.
- Craft Components - Permitted to have a craft component without a name. 
- Craft Components- the error message is not displayed correctly.
- Standard action - Copy standard action fails. 
- Dialogs - The dialog menu remains displayed when we try to create a new one.
- Events - the select a function menu stay displayed when we scroll.
- Roles and privileges - Sorting the names of the privileges doesn't work correctly.
- A vertical scroll bar appears when we try to edit a datasource of type element of an array.
- Adding a variable in the debugger generates an error. 
- Console Error: cannot read properties of null when onloading a nested matrix.
- Can't move the models after the WT ends. 
- Unknown error when we execute a method.
- onChange event spree with high latency network.
- Dialogs - The draggable option doesn't work when we activate the animated option. 
- Dialogs - the scroll doesn't appear in edition mode. 
- The input of the webForm property disappears in the navigation action. 
- The target/value still appears even after the removal of the data source.
- Roles and privileges - the delete icon doesn't appear in the popup. 
- Sanity check - the error message is wrong when we use a non-existent datasource. 
- Buttons such as preview and renderer do not appear when the browser size is reduced, a scroll bar should be implemented.
- we should have control of webForm name size.
- Roles and Privileges - the tab is opened in preview mode. 
- Explorer - The opened file remains open even after it has been deleted from shared.
- Default parameters when creating a new navigation action.
- Sanity check about copying from the "iterate with" value of a matrix to an entity. 
- Dialogs - open a dialog in on load webForm doesn't work in preview mode and works in renderer mode. 
- "Oops something wrong happened... " appears when we use open event panel. 
- Renamed Local CSS Classes Not Updating in Component Properties Panel. 
- Some menus are not updated with the new Qodly aesthetics. 
Contextual panel - the action type is automatically switched to copy when we change the Source ds. 
- Invalid characters are accepted in the model's functions. 
- The collapse button doesn't exist in a standard action if we choose a state or dialogs. 
- We can create web forms with names starting with "_" or a number.
- Roles and Privileges - privileges are still counted in the roles even if they are deleted. 
- Events - The standard action logout is not collapsible. 
- Attribute that is binded with a custom component will not iterate in matrix. 
-We shouldn't DnD a component in the webForm if a dialog is open. 
- The UUID is not generated for an existing datacalass or a storage attribute/related attribute does not have a UUID. 
- Simple action - when we duplicate a button with a setValue action, the value doesn't change when we switch to the first button. 
- onChange event not executed in the text input of type duration.
- When the text input of type duration has no format, the values are incremented automatically. 
- We encounter NaN (Not a Number) values when we select duration using the text input.
- The icon and the button className property are lost when switching between states. 
- Quit session / logout - The hidden function ds.__logout is shown in the type ahead + the catalog. 
- Image / Datasource - Image for a newly created entity is not displayed in an image component. 
- Image component - Image not displayed after saving an entity.



</details>


## Qodly Server

<h3> What's New </h3>


- Support of comparison operators on [object references](../language/basics/lang-object.md#object-operators) and [collection references](../language/basics/lang-collection.md#collection-operators). `collection.query()` now supports [object and collection references as query values](../language/CollectionClass.md#object-or-collection-reference-as-value).
- New [`entitySelection.clean()`](../language/EntitySelectionClass.md#clean) function and [`$clean` REST API](../api/$clean.md) to get a new entity selection based upon the original entity selection but without its deleted entities.
- New [`session.getPrivileges()`](../language/SessionClass.md#getprivileges) function and [`$info/privileges`](../api/$info.md) REST API to inspect session privileges for an easier debugging.
- New [`$singleton`](../api/$singleton.md) REST API to call exposed singleton functions from REST and new associated privileges.
- The [`$catalog`](../api/$catalog.md) REST API now returns singletons (if any).




<h3>Improvements </h3>



## Qodly Cloud

<h3> What's New </h3>

<ComingSoon/>

Thank you for your continued support and understanding as we implement these enhancements!
