---
id: v1.0.0-beta.1
title: 1.0.0 - beta.1
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Column from '@site/src/components/Column'
import ReleaseNotes from '@site/src/components/ReleaseNotes';

<!-- recent update incorporated is from version 1.0.0-rc.40 -->

#### 11/16/2023

## What's New

- Enhanced properties panel in basic mode: Now displays the `color` property of the Text component.
- Improved Image component: Supports the `object-fit` attribute under the object category in the properties panel.
- Attribute value reset: Users can now `reset` the value of an attribute within the Style category to its default value.
- CSS class protection: Users prevented from overriding `Tailwind CSS classes`.
- Tab contextual menu for editor switching.
- Modal usage for creating items (webform, data class, or method).
- Responsive webforms editor contextual panel.
- Shortcut addition: `Alt + Shift + Delete` to remove a component.
- Method execution directly from the toolbar of the code editor.
- Added support for duration format: `Simple`, `Distance`, `Distance With Suffix`, `Strict Distance`, and `Strict Distance With Suffix`.
- Preview button disabled when catalog, shared datasources, and shared CSS classes are not loaded.
- Limited number of displayed items in Selectbox component to `15 items`.
- Consistency update: Removed `%` unit in borders in the properties panel to align with CSS specifications.
- Content update in the editor after switching to its tab.
- Error display in Sanity check for undefined functions.

## Improvements

- Updated function call setup: Replace `$0` with the result, indicate the result type, and exclude `$0` if the function returns nothing.
- Streamlined CSS class editing: `Turn into shared` button is hidden while editing the name of a local CSS class.
- Error indication in the datatable: Columns now display as errored if bound to an invalid datasource.
- Added icons to contextual menu titles.
- Truncation of datasource in the properties panel if too long.
- Loading indication in the debugger tab when a method is running in the background.
- Improved Model Editor UI and accessibility.

## Bug Fixes

- Fixed the issue of feedback messages not displaying after executing a function.
- Fixed the settings tab getting stuck on reload when opened in two different sessions and changing the app settings, then saving the other session settings.
- Fixed the webForm loader component not functioning correctly after clearing and resetting the value.
- Fixed the syntax highlighting issue in the code preview.
- Fixed webform edit button not working when switched to the text editor during preview mode by hiding the switch editor menu.
- Fixed breakpoints shifting or disappearing when adding a new one in a calculated attribute.
- Fixed the components list unavailability in the welcome tour.
- Fixed displaying line numbers and region toggles when opening a webform in the text editor.
- Fixed calling a function that returns a new entity not working after calling it twice.
- Fixed webform editor crashing issue.
- Fixed the inability to remove a datasource.
- Fixed data not loading in datatable sometimes.
- Fixed false negatives in sanity check.
- Fixed incorrect margins on the list of events.
- Fixed rendering issues of 4 columns in the matrix at a resolution of 1920 * 1080, and when the resolution shifts to 1920 * 1080.
- Fixed the touched flag not persisting on the properties panel.
- Fixed the debugger issue: taking indentation into consideration when displaying exceptions.
- Fixed webform editor crashes when reading methods from a non-existing data class.
- Fixed the creation of a user class overriding the ORDA Data model class with the same name.
- Fixed the datasource field on function event parameters, which removed characters as we type.
- Fixed the datatable column width unit changing from % to px.
- Fixed margin and padding inputs not working as expected.
- Fixed the datatable expanding infinitely.
- Fixed changing the position of the label to top or bottom causing the entire component to center.
- Fixed text input component crashes when the type is date, but the datasource is of type string.
- Fixed an issue in CSV import where the import button was not correctly displayed.
- Fixed the select box issue: the stylebox inside does not inherit the height changes when we change the height.
- Fixed the code preview issue: displaying a blank page when trying to open preview without selecting a function in the context menu.
- Fixed the contextual menu not hiding after clicking on preview.
- Fixed the webform being displayed as touched once we open it.
- Fixed the copy standard action with deep links.
- Fixed datatable issue: it was impossible to center the header.
- Fixed a line offset bug in the debugger.
- Fixed an issue related to null values in dates.
