---
id: v1.0.0-beta.2
title: 1.0.0 - beta.2
---


#### 01/25/2024

## Qodly Studio

<h3> What's New </h3>

- New Reset standard action for datasources.
- New default image for missing picture attributes.
- New clear button for unused CSS classes and datasource. 
- Support of drag and drop of an image from the shared folder to the background image in the properties panel. 
- Allow Qodly Developers to easily preview their files without opening lot of tabs at the same time.
- Add a read-only property to slider/range input.
- Support variadic functions
- Added support for Custom Components. 
- New "Tabs preview mode"
- Handling of double-click events in datatable component. 
- Implemented a loading bar display during REST API calls.
<!-- 1.0.0-beta.2-rc.5 -->
- Integrated support for "hh:mm" for the "duration" type input.
- Introduced the "text area" type for input in the Text Input component.
- Extended support for the "duration" type for input in some components.
- Added a "Show Documentation" redirection link to the documentation in the Code Editor tips.

<h3> Improvements </h3> 

- Renamed standard actions to make them more consistent with ORDA concepts.
- When the format category (String, Number, Date, Duration) is changed, the entered format is still displayed.
- Enhanced Qodly Studio Speed by using CDNs.
- Improved user experience for the "duration" type in the Text Input component with a more user-friendly widget.
- Disabled the Stylebox width property when the parent is a Select Box.

<h3> Bug Fixes </h3>

<details><summary>Click to display the bug fix list</summary>

- Initial value of a datasource of type object not well controlled.
- Text input - the input type duration doesn't display the right value.
- When selecting a property like center ex: background Position, the text appears in the unit section. 
- Model Editor - if the text editor tab is already opened the function is not added to the class content.
- The gap between the icon and the text is not clickable (craft component). 
- Sanity check - button is bound with a not existing css Class (bg-green-500).
- The initial value doesn't appear if the name of datasource is "ds". 
- Craft component - the hover background color in the menu for edit and delete is not displayed and the name of the craft component stays displayed.
- Model Editor - we cannot select the type of the function at the creation step.
- Sanity check - the close button doesn't have the hover effect and the clear button is too close to the button.
- The background CSS classes are not applicable to the button component (themes).
- Edit datastore functions do not work when the code editor tab is already opened. 
- Matrix does not auto-scroll to the selected element. 
- Range input component value on edition mode is different from rendering mode.
- Cannot DnD datasource on range input.
- The tab title is incorrect (after removing the second tab). 
- After removing a tab we lose the focus so the contents of the next tab don't appear. 
- Text input display shifts accroding to input'stype. 
- The helper tips should disappear if we remove the focus from them. 
- box-shadow shouldn't appear if the select input list is empty.
- Code editor - The error messages in the code editor for the classes are not visible.
- Helper tips - the helper tips should disappear if we remove the focus from them.
- Duration - Input text - When we click inside the text input, the value incremented of an hour.
- Duration type - The duration is not sent properly to the server.
- Renderer - Rendering an engined application returns a 404 error.
- Min and max value properties have a default value of 0 after modification.
- Datassources - we can't inspect local/shared datasources.
- Model - we cannot open the model after editing it in editor text.
- Datasource - can't change the initial value from none to all.
- When you inspect an attribute from an Entity or Selection, it will inspect the same attribute for the entities/selection from the same type.
- Model editor - min and max value properties have a default value of 0 after modification.
- Webform - the font size doesn't apply on components inside a webform in the airy mode. 
- Model Editor - cannot create an attribute with the same name as a recently deleted attribute.
- Datatable - Related entity attribute is not displayed. 
- Editing Filled track in a fixed value of the Range Input by dragging it.
- "Invalid date" when typing anything in a text input component with type "text" and format "date short".
- Invalid default name when we try to create craft item.
- When we hover over the helper tips icon the window starts flickering.
- Edit server side ref should be focused automatically. 
- Selectbox - the selectbox crash.
- Impossible to delete a blank expression in debugger.
- Reset value popup text should be in the same line. 
- Changes in the parameter (from datasource to hardcoded value or the inverse) not saved after collapsing a function event.
- Functions of not exposed dataclasses should not appear in the events panel.
- Array/Matrix not displaying the collection content. 
- Depth shouldn't appear in info of DS of type scalar.
- A snackbar with a message should appear in preview mode when we use navigation webFormLoader (self). 
- Model Editor - the relation doesn't appear after deleting the selection.
- Onfocusing a date input causes shifting. 
- Events - Failure feedback doesn't appear in refresh standard action.
- Settings - the naming conventions are not applied to the created webform.
- Query with date.
- Background color of namespace is not correct (function events). 
- Computed attributes are not proposed for Alias creation in Model.
- Reloading entity selection not working. 
- Some original infos not displayed when onloading the page. 
- The webforms are created with touched flag. 
- Reloading model does not refresh function list. 
- the cursor is not pointed to the right line when we use the preview Button.
- The format of date not appeared when binding a text component in a nested matrix. 
- Select time is not the saved one.
- When selecting a dataclass attribute, the scope property select style is not consistent with the other selects style.
- the permissions select border should be purple. 
- the purple border should appear on text input and text area focus.
- the border doesn't appear when opening the select. 
- The focus border color is blue, it should be purple (model editor panel color). 
- Datasources - On change on a datasource is called several times. 
- Properties panel - Reset value functionality is missing or not working for some properties. 
- Orphan entity attribute not refreshed in webForm loader renderering 
- Data not reloaded after clearing the select box. 
- The save changes popup appears after deleting a webform that is not saved. 
- The auto value in width appears as an error in DataTable columns. 
- Matrix - The selected element is not taken into account when copied from another datasource.
- Datatable not taking full width in tab. 
- Explorer - icons appear when renaming folders. 
- Explorer - the options menu jumps to the top. 
- Explorer - file name already exist when we clear the input (webforms - methods - classes).
- Another namespace is created when typing the first letters while creating a DS from the catalog (using the keyboard cursor). 
- Contextual Panel - The 'Collapse All' button in the Actions section should automatically switch to 'Expand All' if all the actions are already collapsed same for the 'Expand All'. 
- Changes Made in the Role and Privilege Editor Not Synchronized with JSON Representation in the Text Editor. 
- Datatable Text-Align Property Behavior and Reset Value Inconsistency. 
- Formats - Date format - Days and months not translated.
- Text input with null number data. 
- We can d&d components in search input. 
- the search icon in model editor should have the same size as the other search icons (explorer for example). 
- The Label Position Left property is not highlighted for some components. 
- label icon, position and server side ref are not aligned with others. 
- Cannot format duration as HH:mm or hh:mm.
- we can create CSS classes that resemble Tailwind CSS from property panel (which create a problem in Qodly studio style). 
- Datasources - some menus are not updated with the new Qodly aesthetics. 
- Cannot open Roles.json file from recent files. 
- Standard action - Provide feedback not appropriated for permission errors. 
- the column doesn't take the right width when we use the % unit (DataTable). 
- Datasource event - On change event triggered too many times. 
- Text Editor Unavailability After Corrupting JSON Representation. 
- a black border appears in the explorer when we click in keyboard button.
- File Upload : We can't upload image in blob type. 
- Standard action - Copy impossible for a collection in an object attribute of an entity. 
- change the width of the Matrix using % affects the stylebox inside. 
- the highlight of inspection persists after deleting the datasource. 
- The airy mode is not enabled by default in the webforms. 
- New picture is not saved after uploading a file picture. 
- Color border property input doesn't appear properly. 
- The hardcoded value disappears from the function event. 
- code editor - the first line can be edited or replaced.
- Standard actions - Clear action does not reset related entity. 
- Search output of a selectbox is not stable. 
- the matrix component triggers the touched flag in the webForm when resizing the contextual panel. 
- Studio - Tabs touched state is persistent after save
- Copying entities through links not working. 
- the data doesn't appear in dataTable.
- Duration - A duration sent to the server in ms is returned by the server is seconds. 
- Duration type - Update a duration on the server does not work. 
- Datatable - the datatable expands infinitely.
- The duration value will be multiplicated by 1000 after a reload event. 
- Cannot set pointer cursor on my matrix.
- Shared datasource - The datasource is reloaded with its initial value at each navigation event in a web form loader. 
- The sorting arrow is visible even if we don't have a source. 
- Contextual panel - the name of the function should be limited in the function drop down. 
- Model editor - white color when we hover over the dataclasses and attributes icons. 
- Text component - the value of datasource type boolean doesn't appear.
- Error appears when duplicate a webform. 
- Image - the color section of the image properties is missing. 
- Should not display privileges panel after adding+canceling a role.
- Namespace in info doesn't appear properly. 
- Select Box - Double click in the arrow shifts the layout of Qodly Studio. 
- WebEvent “onCellClick” does not register in blank cell. 
- the edit properties block disappears in the contextual menu when we modify the name of the dataSource. 
- The webform stays open even if we delete it. 
- the preview area message should be updated in events.
- Column sorting in datatable bound with collection. 
- the value of an attribute of an entity doesn't appear even if the initial value is First. 
- Style library - the style edit and preview are in the wrong colors.
- The reset value button doesn't have a background. 
- The webForm loader is not working after clearing and resetting the value.
- Tabs component - Web form loaders are not displayed. 
- Settings - the settings tab is stuck on reload.
- roles and privilegess: remove icons are not the same. 
- Matrix - Width of 25% for the style box fails with resolution < 1920 * 1080 but also when the resolution shifts to 1920 * 1080. 
- Formats - Durations are not considered as duration but as a time

</details>


## Qodly Server

<h3> What's New </h3>

- Introduction of the `collection.multiSort()` function.
- Support for assigning file references to picture/blob attributes in ORDA.
- Capability to initialize the variable's value and data type in the declaration line.
- New syntax for declaring variadic parameters.
- New `Try(expression)` keyword to handle simple error cases.
- New `httpParseMessage` command.

<h3>Improvements </h3>

- Integrated documentation for date and time formats.

## Qodly Cloud

<h3> What's New </h3>

- Sleep Mode for Your Sandbox: In our ongoing efforts to enhance resource efficiency, we introduce a new "Sleep Mode" feature for your sandbox environment. See [this page](../cloud/getStarted.md#sleep-mode-for-sandbox-applications) for more information. 

Thank you for your continued support and understanding as we implement these enhancements!
