---
id: v1.0.0-beta.4
title: 1.0.0 - beta.4
---


#### 05/06/2024


## Qodly Server

<h3> What's New </h3>


- Support of [shared classes](../language/basics/lang-classes.md#shared-classes), allowing for the instantiation of shared objects with simplified concurrency management. It introduces the new [.isShared](../language/ClassClass.md#isshared) property, which confirms if a class is shared, enhancing traceability. 

- Support of [Singleton classes](../language/basics/lang-classes.md#singleton-classes) to ensure only a single instance of a class is created. Users can define singletons that are unique per process or across all processes. It introduces two properties: [isSingleton](../language/ClassClass.md#issingleton), which confirms if a class is a singleton, and [me](../language/ClassClass.md#me), which accesses or instantiates the singleton instance of the class.

- Support of [restrictive filtering for entity selections](../orda/data.md#restricting-entity-selections) in ORDA, allowing developers to define dynamic access controls on entities based on business rules, such as user session context, enhancing data security and application integrity. 

- New [`openDatastore`](../language/commands/openDatastore) command, which enables connecting to a remote 4D Server datastore by specifying connection details and handling through a local identifier. 



<h3>Improvements </h3>

- Support of the [`try...catch...end`](../language/basics/lang-errors.md#trycatchend) structure, allowing for more robust and customizable error handling in code blocks. 

- Introduced a streamlined syntax for [property initialization within class declarations](../language/basics/lang-classes.md#initializing-the-property-in-the-declaration-line), allowing developers to define properties with both type and initial value on the same line. 


<h3> Bug Fixes </h3>

<details><summary>Click to display the bug fix list</summary>

- Fixed an issue where Qodly Server did not handle warning messages properly.
- Fixed an issue that prevented images from being displayed after saving an entity.
- Fixed an issue where aborting a method using the debugger incorrectly reported a network error as the reason for termination.



</details>

## Qodly Cloud

<h3> What's New </h3>

- New [API key management](../cloud/api-key.md) designed to enhance external access control to its applications. It simplifies the creation, management, and oversight of API keys, enabling better security and efficiency for developers working with Qodly platforms.

Thank you for your continued support and understanding as we implement these enhancements!
