---
id: v1.0.0-beta.3
title: 1.0.0 - beta.3
---


#### 04/20/2024

## Qodly Studio

<h3> What's New </h3>

- Import from the UI components' catalog or develop your own component with the new **Custom components** feature: documentation and API released.
- New [**Dialog component**](https://github.com/docQodly/docs/edit/main/docs/studio/design-webforms/components/dialog.md): a window displaying additional content within the context of the existing page. Thanks to this, it is now so easy to display popups containing various components and handling user actions.
- [Datasources](https://github.com/docQodly/docs/edit/main/docs/studio/design-webforms/events.md#L262) - New standard action to set a datasource value.
- [Navigation](https://github.com/docQodly/docs/edit/main/docs/studio/design-webforms/events.md#L317) - Navigation (current tab / new tab) can be driven by a String datasource containing a web form name or an external link.

<h3> Improvements </h3>

- Form editor - [New component organization](https://github.com/docQodly/docs/edit/main/docs/studio/design-webforms/components/componentsBasics.md#L13). They are categorized by type: Container, Simple, List, and Custom Components
- Styling datatable - A new [**Show borders**](https://github.com/docQodly/docs/edit/main/docs/studio/design-webforms/components/datatable.md#L52) property is available.
- [Code editor](https://docqodly.github.io/docs/studio/debugging#managing-breakpoints): Tab contextual menu: add options to remove break points in the current file, in other files or in all files.
- [Show a warning](https://docqodly.github.io/docs/studio/settings#user) for not saved webforms when [previewing the app](https://docqodly.github.io/docs/studio/rendering#preview-the-entire-site)

- [Components](https://github.com/docQodly/docs/edit/main/docs/studio/design-webforms/create-webform.md#L160) - Show the last active tab in the contextual panel when selecting a component.

- Model Editor - Index Kind property shouldn't be available for an attribute of type Text.
- Actions - For more consistence, actions families have been renamed.

- Inform the end-user when connection is lost.


<h3> Bug Fixes </h3>

<details><summary>Click to display the bug fix list</summary>

<!-- v0.21.7 to v0.25.1 -->
- Standard actions not showing up after project update.
- When having a selected element entity attached to the datatable the search/filtering doesn't work.
- Weird behavior when reloading selection after delete.
- Copy of the current element of a matrix to an entity datasource causing problem.
- The CSS class is currently being applied across all of Qodly Studio instead of just the Canvas.
- Dialogs - expand beyond a webform limits.
- The "privileges" word and icon are not correct in the roles & privileges tab's Menu.
- Collapse all button should be disabled if all folders are collapsed.
- No control of types when we set a value on datasource event OnChange.
- Text input - when updating an entity & selecting another one the previous entity value is still displayed on input focus.
- Executing a function that exists in an entity class not working on runtime.
- Confirmation Modal Missing in Outline Dialog Deletion.
- Number "0" not filled in an input component.
- Unsaved files popup message - Missing space for the message.
- We can create two dialogs with the same name.
- Sanity check - Set datasource value - Change the message.
- Events - the datasource input have a red error border in the navigation event.
- Custom component not uploaded.
- Modal not properly displayed (nested webform loaders).
- Selectbox onSelect events are not all triggered.
- Clear datasource is causing many issue when we call functions.
- Roles and Privileges - Qodly studio crash when we try to access to privileges.
- Events - we can type in the type of the standard actions and the dialog actions.
- Model editor - the datastore functions input doesn't have the right top-padding.
- Carousel component (custom component) not displayed in the list of components.
- Renaming a webform with symbols and numbers gives error pages.
- Upload Component: when you upload an image the width of the component change and affect the other components.
- Current / default values not showed when you open the webForm.
- Displaying a warning in the code about form toasts notifications.
- Model editor - the delete icon doesn't appear in the popup.
- Navigation - The datasource name is reseted when switching between Webform or External Link.
- Standard action - Clear on datasource of type image does not work.
- Set datasource value - New value for an object datasource is ignored.
- string should selected by default when we add hard coded parameter.
- Dialogs - Impossible to apply a CSS class to a component inside the dialog in the On Open action.
- Data Model - Date only property is not taken into account while rendering components.
- variable should be variant in function parameter.
- Webform loader not loading.
- Regression: Solid icons are not available in icon list.
- Filled Track of the Range Input Component has an incorrect value while choosing a value from a select input or a selectbox or both.
- Switch to webform editor / switch to text editor is no longer available.
- Matrix / Image component - The default image source is not displayed for the selected element.
- Data model - For a related entity attribute, the path property in model.4DModel is useless.
- We can't return to edit mode if we rename the webForm in preview mode.
- We can rename our webForms with incorrect values if we use rename in webForm contextual menu.
- Navigation - the type ahead not proposing entity.attributePath and object.attributePath.
- Strange matrix resizing issue in edition mode.
- The hardcoded value & external link options have the same icon which is confusing.
- The target of type datasource doesn't work as external value.
- The target webform loader is still displayed even after switching to external link option.
- When switching from hardcoded value to datasource the https: string is considered as a namespace (Navigation (current tab / new tab)).
- The close icon of the feedback dialog is not on the correct place.
- Component categories appear in Craft and Templates.
- The arrow size of the lists in properties panel is not correct.
- Qodly Demo navigation﻿ : 404 error.
- Model Editor - the cursor in the editor is above the function declaration when we create it from the Model Editor.
- Quit session / logout - Updating the roles.json with the Qodly studio UI removes the attribute forceLogin.
- The tab confirmed flag is lost when we reload a confirmed tab.
- Model Editor - The type of the attribute test should be relatedEntities instead of relatedEntity.
- The webforms are created with invalid names from the navigation event.
- when selecting a unit like center, scroll, none, repeat, auto for property like background, the unit is not checked for the first time
- Matrix - Select element attributes not updated on the matrix after being modified.

</details>
